setup.md, before:

# Thai Medical Text Comparison System - Setup Guide

## 📋 Overview

This is a production-ready C# .NET console application that compares Thai medical texts using advanced tokenization, fuzzy matching, and coverage-based analysis. The system features a **modular architecture**, **comprehensive testing framework** (64+ tests), and is optimized for medical applications requiring precise symptom matching with support for compound symptoms, typos, and concatenated text parsing.

## 🎯 Key Features

### Core Functionality

- **Thai Medical Text Processing**: Specialized tokenization for Thai medical terminology
- **Compound Symptom Handling**: Expands compound symptoms like "แขนขวาขาขวาอ่อนแรง"
- **Fuzzy Matching**: 70% similarity threshold for typo correction
- **Coverage-Based Matching**: Exact match logic requiring 100% coverage
- **Concatenated Text Parsing**: Handles mixed medical/non-medical concatenated text
- **Case Normalization**: Case-insensitive medical abbreviations (BP, HR, ECG, etc.)
- **Performance Optimization**: Optimized algorithms for strings >500 characters
- **Thai Unicode Boundary Detection**: Proper word segmentation for Thai-Latin boundaries

### Production Features

- **Modular Architecture**: Clean separation of concerns with Core/ components
- **Comprehensive Testing**: 64+ tests covering Unit, Integration, Performance, and Stress scenarios
- **Automated Test Suite**: Complete testing strategy with coverage reporting
- **Error Handling**: Robust error handling and input validation
- **Memory Management**: Memory leak prevention and optimization
- **Thread Safety**: Concurrent operation support

## 🛠️ Prerequisites

### Required Software

- **.NET 9.0 SDK** or later
- **Operating System**: Windows, macOS, or Linux
- **IDE** (Optional): Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, or JetBrains Rider

### System Requirements

- **Memory**: Minimum 512 MB RAM
- **Storage**: 50 MB free disk space
- **Processor**: Any modern CPU (optimized for multi-core)

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Clone or Download the Project

```bash
# If using Git
git clone <repository-url>
cd ThaiTextCompareDict

# Or download and extract the ZIP file
```

### 2. Navigate to Project Directory

```bash
cd ThaiTextCompare
```

### 3. Restore Dependencies (if needed)

```bash
dotnet restore
```

### 4. Build the Application

```bash
dotnet build
```

### 5. Run the Application

```bash
dotnet run
```

### 6. Run the Complete Test Suite

```bash
# Make the test script executable
chmod +x run-tests.sh

# Run comprehensive testing strategy (64+ tests)
./run-tests.sh

# Or run tests manually
cd Tests
dotnet test
```

## 🧪 Comprehensive Testing Framework

### Test Categories (64+ Tests Total)

| Category        | Count | Purpose                                  | Execution Time |
| --------------- | ----- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| **Unit**        | 53    | Test individual components in isolation  | < 1 second     |
| **Integration** | 5     | Test complete workflows end-to-end       | < 1 second     |
| **Performance** | 1     | Measure and validate performance metrics | < 1 second     |
| **Stress**      | 6     | Test system limits and edge cases        | < 2 seconds    |

### Running Tests

```bash
# Quick test execution (all 64 tests)
cd Tests
dotnet test

# Run by category
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Unit"        # Unit tests (53)
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Integration" # Integration tests (5)
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Stress"      # Stress tests (6)

# Automated full suite with reporting
./run-tests.sh
```

### Test Coverage

- ✅ **Core Logic**: 95%+ coverage achieved
- ✅ **Tokenization**: 90%+ coverage achieved
- ✅ **Comparison Engine**: 95%+ coverage achieved
- ✅ **Edge Cases**: 85%+ coverage achieved
- ✅ **Error Handling**: 90%+ coverage achieved

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Medical Dictionary

The system uses a comprehensive built-in symptom dictionary with 40+ Thai medical terms organized in `Core/SymptomDictionary.cs`:

- **Primary symptoms**: `ไข้`, `ไอ`, `เจ็บคอ`, `มีน้ำมูก`, `ปวดหัว`, `ปวดท้อง`
- **Compound symptoms**: `แขนซ้ายอ่อนแรง`, `ขาขวาอ่อนแรง`, `แขนขวาขาขวาอ่อนแรง`
- **Medical abbreviations**: `BP ต่ำ`, `HR 60`, `ECG normal`, `O2 sat`, `RR`
- **Body systems**: `หายใจลำบาก`, `เจ็บหน้าอก`, `วิงเวียน`, `คลื่นไส้`

### Modular Architecture

The system is organized into clean, testable components:

- **`ThaiMedicalTokenizer`**: Handles Thai text tokenization and symptom parsing
- **`ComparisonEngine`**: Manages text comparison logic and similarity calculations
- **`SymptomDictionary`**: Centralized medical terminology management

### Performance Settings

- **Fuzzy Match Threshold**: 70% similarity
- **Exact Match Threshold**: 100% coverage required
- **Optimization Threshold**: Strings >500 characters use optimized parsing
- **Max Segment Length**: 50 characters per non-dictionary segment

### Synonym Mappings

The system automatically handles common variations:

- `มีน้ำมูก` ↔ `น้ำมูก`
- `ปวดศีรษะ` ↔ `ปวดหัว`
- `BP ต่ำ` ↔ `BPต่ำ`
- `มีไข้` → `ไข้`

## 🧪 Testing

### Built-in Test Cases

The application includes 64+ comprehensive test cases covering:

- **Unit Tests (53)**: Individual component testing
  - Thai tokenization edge cases
  - Comparison engine logic
  - Data-driven test scenarios
- **Integration Tests (5)**: End-to-end workflow validation
  - Real medical scenarios from chief_complaints.json
  - Complete comparison workflows
  - Performance validation
- **Performance Tests (1)**: Timing and optimization validation
- **Stress Tests (6)**: System limits and robustness
  - 1000+ simultaneous comparisons
  - Very long text handling (>1000 chars)
  - Memory leak detection
  - Randomized input robustness

### Running Tests

```bash
# Quick test (all 64 tests)
cd Tests
dotnet test

# Automated comprehensive testing
./run-tests.sh

# Build and run application
dotnet run --configuration Release
```

### Test Results Summary

```
✅ Unit Tests: 53/53 passed
✅ Integration Tests: 5/5 passed
✅ Performance Tests: 1/1 passed
✅ Stress Tests: 6/6 passed
✅ Code Coverage: >85% overall
✅ All edge cases handled
```

### Sample Test Cases

```
✅ PASS: "ไข้ ไอ เจ็บคอ มีน้ำมูก" vs "ไข้ ไอ เจ็บคอ มีน้ำมูก" = 100% match
✅ PASS: "BP ต่ำ" vs "bp ต่ำ" = 100% match (case normalization)
✅ PASS: "แขนขวาขาขวาอ่อนแรง" expands to individual limb symptoms
✅ PASS: "ปวดศีรษะ" vs "ปวดหัว" = 100% match (synonym recognition)
✅ PASS: 1000+ simultaneous comparisons complete without errors
✅ PASS: Memory usage remains stable under stress testing
❌ FAIL: "ไข้ ไอ" vs "ไข้" = 50% coverage (missing symptoms detected)
```

## 🔧 Development Setup

### Using Visual Studio Code

1. Install C# extension
2. Open project folder
3. Use `Ctrl+Shift+P` → "C#: Generate Assets for Build and Debug"
4. Press `F5` to run with debugging

### Using Visual Studio

1. Open `ThaiTextCompare.csproj`
2. Set `ThaiTextCompare` as startup project
3. Press `F5` to run

### Using Command Line

```bash
# Development build
dotnet build --configuration Debug

# Production build
dotnet build --configuration Release

# Run application
dotnet run

# Run with verbose output
dotnet run --verbosity detailed

# Run tests
cd Tests && dotnet test

# Run automated test suite
./run-tests.sh

# Clean build artifacts
dotnet clean
```

## 📊 Output Format

The application provides detailed comparison analysis:

```
Text1: 'ไข้ ไอ เจ็บคอ มีน้ำมูก'
Text2: 'ไข้ ไอ เจ็บคอ รถยนต์'
Tokens1: [ไข้, ไอ, เจ็บคอ, น้ำมูก] (4 tokens)
Tokens2: [ไข้, ไอ, เจ็บคอ, รถยนต์] (4 tokens)
✅ Matched: [ไข้, ไอ, เจ็บคอ] (3 words)
❌ Missing from Text2: [น้ำมูก] (1 words)
➕ Extra in Text2: [รถยนต์] (1 words)
Text1→Text2 Coverage: 75% (Primary Score)
Match Result: False
```

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. "No such command: dotnet"

**Solution**: Install .NET 9.0 SDK from https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download

#### 2. "Project file not found"

**Solution**: Ensure you're in the correct directory with the `.csproj` file

#### 3. "Build failed" errors

**Solution**:

```bash
dotnet clean
dotnet restore
dotnet build
```

#### 4. "TESTRUNABORT" errors

**Solution**: Use the correct test filters:

```bash
# Correct way to run tests by category
cd Tests
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Unit"
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Integration"
```

#### 5. Test script permission denied

**Solution**:

```bash
chmod +x run-tests.sh
./run-tests.sh
```

#### 6. "Out of memory" on large texts

**Solution**: The system automatically optimizes for strings >500 characters, but for extremely large inputs, consider chunking the text.

#### 7. Character encoding issues

**Solution**: Ensure your terminal/console supports UTF-8 encoding for proper Thai character display.

### Performance Issues

- For very large texts (>10,000 characters), consider implementing text chunking
- Monitor memory usage with large dictionaries
- Use Release build for production: `dotnet run --configuration Release`

### Debug Mode

```bash
# Run with detailed logging
dotnet run --configuration Debug

# Check build warnings
dotnet build --verbosity normal

# Run specific test categories
cd Tests
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Unit" --verbosity detailed

# Generate test coverage report
dotnet test --collect:"XPlat Code Coverage"
```

## 🎯 Usage Examples

### Basic Comparison

```csharp
// Using the modular architecture
var tokenizer = new ThaiMedicalTokenizer(SymptomDictionary.DefaultSymptomDict);
var engine = new ComparisonEngine(tokenizer);
var result = engine.CompareThaiMedicalTexts("ไข้ ไอ", "ไข้ ไอ เจ็บคอ", 100.0);
// Returns: coverage=100%, match=false (extra symptoms in text2)
```

### Compound Symptom Expansion

```csharp
// Input: "แขนขวาขาขวาอ่อนแรง"
// Automatically expands to: ["แขนขวาอ่อนแรง", "ขาขวาอ่อนแรง"]
```

### Fuzzy Matching & Synonyms

```csharp
// "หายใจลำบาด" automatically corrects to "หายใจลำบาก"
// "น้ำมุก" automatically corrects to "น้ำมูก"
// "ปวดศีรษะ" matches "ปวดหัว" (synonyms)
// "BP ต่ำ" matches "bp ต่ำ" (case normalization)
```

## 📈 Production Considerations

### For Production Deployment

1. **Build for Production**: `dotnet build --configuration Release`
2. **Run Comprehensive Tests**: `./run-tests.sh` (all 64+ tests must pass)
3. **Verify Performance**: Check stress test results and memory usage
4. **Consider containerization**: Docker deployment with multi-stage builds
5. **Implement monitoring**: Add structured logging and health checks
6. **Add input validation**: Sanitize inputs for web APIs
7. **Enable caching**: Cache frequently compared texts and tokenization results
8. **Database integration**: Consider persisting medical dictionaries
9. **Security hardening**: Implement rate limiting and input size restrictions

### API Integration Example

```csharp
[ApiController]
[Route("api/[controller]")]
public class TextComparisonController : ControllerBase
{
    private readonly ComparisonEngine _engine;

    public TextComparisonController()
    {
        var tokenizer = new ThaiMedicalTokenizer(SymptomDictionary.DefaultSymptomDict);
        _engine = new ComparisonEngine(tokenizer);
    }

    [HttpPost("compare")]
    public ComparisonResult Compare([FromBody] CompareRequest request)
    {
        return _engine.CompareThaiMedicalTexts(
            request.Text1,
            request.Text2,
            request.Threshold ?? 70.0
        );
    }
}
```

### CI/CD Pipeline Configuration

```yaml
# GitHub Actions / Azure DevOps example
- name: Run Tests
  run: |
    chmod +x run-tests.sh
    ./run-tests.sh

- name: Verify Coverage
  run: |
    dotnet test --collect:"XPlat Code Coverage"
    # Coverage must be >85%

- name: Performance Tests
  run: |
    cd Tests
    dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Performance"
```

## 🤝 Contributing

### Code Style

- Follow C# naming conventions
- Use meaningful variable names
- Add XML documentation for public methods
- Include unit tests for new features (maintain >85% coverage)
- Follow the modular architecture pattern

### Adding Medical Terms

Update the `SymptomDictionary.DefaultSymptomDict` in `Core/SymptomDictionary.cs`:

```csharp
public static readonly string[] DefaultSymptomDict = new[]
{
    // Add new terms here
    "ใหม่อาการ",
    "อาการใหม่",
    // ...existing terms
};
```

### Adding New Tests

1. Determine test category (Unit/Integration/Performance/Stress)
2. Follow naming convention: `MethodName_Scenario_ExpectedResult`
3. Use FluentAssertions for readable assertions
4. Place in appropriate test directory
5. Run `./run-tests.sh` to verify all tests pass

### Test Structure Example

```csharp
[TestClass]
public class NewFeatureTests
{
    [TestMethod]
    public void NewMethod_ValidInput_ShouldReturnExpectedResult()
    {
        // Arrange
        var input = "test input";
        var expected = "expected result";

        // Act
        var result = NewMethod(input);

        // Assert
        result.Should().Be(expected);
    }
}
```

## 📝 License

This project is for educational and medical research purposes. Please ensure compliance with your local medical data regulations when using in production environments.

## 📞 Support

For issues and questions:

1. **Check this setup guide first**
2. **Review the troubleshooting section**
3. **Run the test suite**: `./run-tests.sh` to verify system health
4. **Check TESTING_STRATEGY.md**: Comprehensive testing documentation
5. **Examine the modular code structure**: Core/ directory contains all components
6. **Review test cases**: Tests/ directory has 64+ examples of expected behavior

### Quick Health Check

```bash
# Verify your installation
dotnet --version          # Should show .NET 9.0+
dotnet build             # Should build successfully
./run-tests.sh          # Should show all 64+ tests passing
dotnet run              # Should run the application
```

---

**Version**: 2.0.0  
**Last Updated**: September 6, 2025  
**Compatibility**: .NET 9.0+, Windows/macOS/Linux  
**Architecture**: Modular with comprehensive testing  
**Test Coverage**: 64+ tests, >85% code coverage  
**Production Ready**: ✅ Yes, with full CI/CD support

Commit message:

feat: Enhance documentation and testing for Thai Medical Text Compare with JSON configuration and conjunction filtering

setup.md, after:

# Thai Medical Text Comparison System - Setup Guide

## 📋 Overview

This is a production-ready C# .NET console application that compares Thai medical texts using advanced tokenization, fuzzy matching, and coverage-based analysis. The system features a **modular architecture**, **comprehensive testing framework** (82+ tests), **JSON-based configuration**, and is optimized for medical applications requiring precise symptom matching with support for compound symptoms, typos, concatenated text parsing, and **automatic Thai conjunction filtering**.

## 🎯 Key Features

### Core Functionality

- **Thai Medical Text Processing**: Specialized tokenization for Thai medical terminology
- **Compound Symptom Handling**: Expands compound symptoms like "แขนขวาขาขวาอ่อนแรง"
- **Thai Conjunction Filtering**: Automatically filters Thai conjunctions (และ, หรือ, แต่, etc.)
- **JSON Configuration**: Dynamic loading of symptoms, synonyms, conjunctions, and patterns
- **Fuzzy Matching**: 70% similarity threshold for typo correction
- **Coverage-Based Matching**: Exact match logic requiring 100% coverage
- **Concatenated Text Parsing**: Handles mixed medical/non-medical concatenated text
- **Case Normalization**: Case-insensitive medical abbreviations (BP, HR, ECG, etc.)
- **Performance Optimization**: Optimized algorithms for strings >500 characters
- **Thai Unicode Boundary Detection**: Proper word segmentation for Thai-Latin boundaries

### Production Features

- **Modular Architecture**: Clean separation of concerns with Core/ components
- **JSON Configuration**: External configuration files for easy maintenance
- **Comprehensive Testing**: 82+ tests covering Unit, Integration, Performance, and Stress scenarios
- **Automated Test Suite**: Complete testing strategy with coverage reporting
- **Error Handling**: Robust error handling and input validation
- **Memory Management**: Memory leak prevention and optimization
- **Thread Safety**: Concurrent operation support

## 🛠️ Prerequisites

### Required Software

- **.NET 9.0 SDK** or later
- **Operating System**: Windows, macOS, or Linux
- **IDE** (Optional): Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, or JetBrains Rider

### System Requirements

- **Memory**: Minimum 512 MB RAM
- **Storage**: 50 MB free disk space
- **Processor**: Any modern CPU (optimized for multi-core)

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Clone or Download the Project

```bash
# If using Git
git clone <repository-url>
cd ThaiTextCompareDict

# Or download and extract the ZIP file
```

### 2. Navigate to Project Directory

```bash
cd ThaiTextCompare
```

### 3. Restore Dependencies (if needed)

```bash
dotnet restore
```

### 4. Build the Application

```bash
dotnet build
```

### 5. Run the Application

```bash
dotnet run
```

### 6. Run the Complete Test Suite

```bash
# Make the test script executable
chmod +x run-tests.sh

# Run comprehensive testing strategy (64+ tests)
./run-tests.sh

# Or run tests manually
cd Tests
dotnet test
```

## 🧪 Comprehensive Testing Framework

### Test Categories (64+ Tests Total)

| Category        | Count | Purpose                                  | Execution Time |
| --------------- | ----- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| **Unit**        | 53    | Test individual components in isolation  | < 1 second     |
| **Integration** | 5     | Test complete workflows end-to-end       | < 1 second     |
| **Performance** | 1     | Measure and validate performance metrics | < 1 second     |
| **Stress**      | 6     | Test system limits and edge cases        | < 2 seconds    |

### Running Tests

```bash
# Quick test execution (all 64 tests)
cd Tests
dotnet test

# Run by category
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Unit"        # Unit tests (53)
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Integration" # Integration tests (5)
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Stress"      # Stress tests (6)

# Automated full suite with reporting
./run-tests.sh
```

### Test Coverage

- ✅ **Core Logic**: 95%+ coverage achieved
- ✅ **Tokenization**: 90%+ coverage achieved
- ✅ **Comparison Engine**: 95%+ coverage achieved
- ✅ **Edge Cases**: 85%+ coverage achieved
- ✅ **Error Handling**: 90%+ coverage achieved

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Medical Dictionary

The system uses a comprehensive built-in symptom dictionary with 40+ Thai medical terms organized in `Core/SymptomDictionary.cs`:

- **Primary symptoms**: `ไข้`, `ไอ`, `เจ็บคอ`, `มีน้ำมูก`, `ปวดหัว`, `ปวดท้อง`
- **Compound symptoms**: `แขนซ้ายอ่อนแรง`, `ขาขวาอ่อนแรง`, `แขนขวาขาขวาอ่อนแรง`
- **Medical abbreviations**: `BP ต่ำ`, `HR 60`, `ECG normal`, `O2 sat`, `RR`
- **Body systems**: `หายใจลำบาก`, `เจ็บหน้าอก`, `วิงเวียน`, `คลื่นไส้`

### Modular Architecture

The system is organized into clean, testable components:

- **`ThaiMedicalTokenizer`**: Handles Thai text tokenization and symptom parsing
- **`ComparisonEngine`**: Manages text comparison logic and similarity calculations
- **`SymptomDictionary`**: Centralized medical terminology management

### Performance Settings

- **Fuzzy Match Threshold**: 70% similarity
- **Exact Match Threshold**: 100% coverage required
- **Optimization Threshold**: Strings >500 characters use optimized parsing
- **Max Segment Length**: 50 characters per non-dictionary segment

### Synonym Mappings

The system automatically handles common variations:

- `มีน้ำมูก` ↔ `น้ำมูก`
- `ปวดศีรษะ` ↔ `ปวดหัว`
- `BP ต่ำ` ↔ `BPต่ำ`
- `มีไข้` → `ไข้`

## 🧪 Testing

### Built-in Test Cases

The application includes 64+ comprehensive test cases covering:

- **Unit Tests (53)**: Individual component testing
  - Thai tokenization edge cases
  - Comparison engine logic
  - Data-driven test scenarios
- **Integration Tests (5)**: End-to-end workflow validation
  - Real medical scenarios from chief_complaints.json
  - Complete comparison workflows
  - Performance validation
- **Performance Tests (1)**: Timing and optimization validation
- **Stress Tests (6)**: System limits and robustness
  - 1000+ simultaneous comparisons
  - Very long text handling (>1000 chars)
  - Memory leak detection
  - Randomized input robustness

### Running Tests

```bash
# Quick test (all 64 tests)
cd Tests
dotnet test

# Automated comprehensive testing
./run-tests.sh

# Build and run application
dotnet run --configuration Release
```

### Test Results Summary

```
✅ Unit Tests: 53/53 passed
✅ Integration Tests: 5/5 passed
✅ Performance Tests: 1/1 passed
✅ Stress Tests: 6/6 passed
✅ Code Coverage: >85% overall
✅ All edge cases handled
```

### Sample Test Cases

```
✅ PASS: "ไข้ ไอ เจ็บคอ มีน้ำมูก" vs "ไข้ ไอ เจ็บคอ มีน้ำมูก" = 100% match
✅ PASS: "BP ต่ำ" vs "bp ต่ำ" = 100% match (case normalization)
✅ PASS: "แขนขวาขาขวาอ่อนแรง" expands to individual limb symptoms
✅ PASS: "ปวดศีรษะ" vs "ปวดหัว" = 100% match (synonym recognition)
✅ PASS: 1000+ simultaneous comparisons complete without errors
✅ PASS: Memory usage remains stable under stress testing
❌ FAIL: "ไข้ ไอ" vs "ไข้" = 50% coverage (missing symptoms detected)
```

## 🔧 Development Setup

### Using Visual Studio Code

1. Install C# extension
2. Open project folder
3. Use `Ctrl+Shift+P` → "C#: Generate Assets for Build and Debug"
4. Press `F5` to run with debugging

### Using Visual Studio

1. Open `ThaiTextCompare.csproj`
2. Set `ThaiTextCompare` as startup project
3. Press `F5` to run

### Using Command Line

```bash
# Development build
dotnet build --configuration Debug

# Production build
dotnet build --configuration Release

# Run application
dotnet run

# Run with verbose output
dotnet run --verbosity detailed

# Run tests
cd Tests && dotnet test

# Run automated test suite
./run-tests.sh

# Clean build artifacts
dotnet clean
```

## 📊 Output Format

The application provides detailed comparison analysis:

```
Text1: 'ไข้ ไอ เจ็บคอ มีน้ำมูก'
Text2: 'ไข้ ไอ เจ็บคอ รถยนต์'
Tokens1: [ไข้, ไอ, เจ็บคอ, น้ำมูก] (4 tokens)
Tokens2: [ไข้, ไอ, เจ็บคอ, รถยนต์] (4 tokens)
✅ Matched: [ไข้, ไอ, เจ็บคอ] (3 words)
❌ Missing from Text2: [น้ำมูก] (1 words)
➕ Extra in Text2: [รถยนต์] (1 words)
Text1→Text2 Coverage: 75% (Primary Score)
Match Result: False
```

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. "No such command: dotnet"

**Solution**: Install .NET 9.0 SDK from https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download

#### 2. "Project file not found"

**Solution**: Ensure you're in the correct directory with the `.csproj` file

#### 3. "Build failed" errors

**Solution**:

```bash
dotnet clean
dotnet restore
dotnet build
```

#### 4. "TESTRUNABORT" errors

**Solution**: Use the correct test filters:

```bash
# Correct way to run tests by category
cd Tests
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Unit"
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Integration"
```

#### 5. Test script permission denied

**Solution**:

```bash
chmod +x run-tests.sh
./run-tests.sh
```

#### 6. "Out of memory" on large texts

**Solution**: The system automatically optimizes for strings >500 characters, but for extremely large inputs, consider chunking the text.

#### 7. Character encoding issues

**Solution**: Ensure your terminal/console supports UTF-8 encoding for proper Thai character display.

### Performance Issues

- For very large texts (>10,000 characters), consider implementing text chunking
- Monitor memory usage with large dictionaries
- Use Release build for production: `dotnet run --configuration Release`

### Debug Mode

```bash
# Run with detailed logging
dotnet run --configuration Debug

# Check build warnings
dotnet build --verbosity normal

# Run specific test categories
cd Tests
dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Unit" --verbosity detailed

# Generate test coverage report
dotnet test --collect:"XPlat Code Coverage"
```

## 🎯 Usage Examples

### Basic Comparison

```csharp
// Using the modular architecture
var tokenizer = new ThaiMedicalTokenizer(SymptomDictionary.DefaultSymptomDict);
var engine = new ComparisonEngine(tokenizer);
var result = engine.CompareThaiMedicalTexts("ไข้ ไอ", "ไข้ ไอ เจ็บคอ", 100.0);
// Returns: coverage=100%, match=false (extra symptoms in text2)
```

### Compound Symptom Expansion

```csharp
// Input: "แขนขวาขาขวาอ่อนแรง"
// Automatically expands to: ["แขนขวาอ่อนแรง", "ขาขวาอ่อนแรง"]
```

### Fuzzy Matching & Synonyms

```csharp
// "หายใจลำบาด" automatically corrects to "หายใจลำบาก"
// "น้ำมุก" automatically corrects to "น้ำมูก"
// "ปวดศีรษะ" matches "ปวดหัว" (synonyms)
// "BP ต่ำ" matches "bp ต่ำ" (case normalization)
```

## 📈 Production Considerations

### For Production Deployment

1. **Build for Production**: `dotnet build --configuration Release`
2. **Run Comprehensive Tests**: `./run-tests.sh` (all 64+ tests must pass)
3. **Verify Performance**: Check stress test results and memory usage
4. **Consider containerization**: Docker deployment with multi-stage builds
5. **Implement monitoring**: Add structured logging and health checks
6. **Add input validation**: Sanitize inputs for web APIs
7. **Enable caching**: Cache frequently compared texts and tokenization results
8. **Database integration**: Consider persisting medical dictionaries
9. **Security hardening**: Implement rate limiting and input size restrictions

### API Integration Example

```csharp
[ApiController]
[Route("api/[controller]")]
public class TextComparisonController : ControllerBase
{
    private readonly ComparisonEngine _engine;

    public TextComparisonController()
    {
        var tokenizer = new ThaiMedicalTokenizer(SymptomDictionary.DefaultSymptomDict);
        _engine = new ComparisonEngine(tokenizer);
    }

    [HttpPost("compare")]
    public ComparisonResult Compare([FromBody] CompareRequest request)
    {
        return _engine.CompareThaiMedicalTexts(
            request.Text1,
            request.Text2,
            request.Threshold ?? 70.0
        );
    }
}
```

### CI/CD Pipeline Configuration

```yaml
# GitHub Actions / Azure DevOps example
- name: Run Tests
  run: |
    chmod +x run-tests.sh
    ./run-tests.sh

- name: Verify Coverage
  run: |
    dotnet test --collect:"XPlat Code Coverage"
    # Coverage must be >85%

- name: Performance Tests
  run: |
    cd Tests
    dotnet test --filter "FullyQualifiedName~Performance"
```

## 🤝 Contributing

### Code Style

- Follow C# naming conventions
- Use meaningful variable names
- Add XML documentation for public methods
- Include unit tests for new features (maintain >85% coverage)
- Follow the modular architecture pattern

### Adding Medical Terms

Update the `SymptomDictionary.DefaultSymptomDict` in `Core/SymptomDictionary.cs`:

```csharp
public static readonly string[] DefaultSymptomDict = new[]
{
    // Add new terms here
    "ใหม่อาการ",
    "อาการใหม่",
    // ...existing terms
};
```

### Adding New Tests

1. Determine test category (Unit/Integration/Performance/Stress)
2. Follow naming convention: `MethodName_Scenario_ExpectedResult`
3. Use FluentAssertions for readable assertions
4. Place in appropriate test directory
5. Run `./run-tests.sh` to verify all tests pass

### Test Structure Example

```csharp
[TestClass]
public class NewFeatureTests
{
    [TestMethod]
    public void NewMethod_ValidInput_ShouldReturnExpectedResult()
    {
        // Arrange
        var input = "test input";
        var expected = "expected result";

        // Act
        var result = NewMethod(input);

        // Assert
        result.Should().Be(expected);
    }
}
```

## 📝 License

This project is for educational and medical research purposes. Please ensure compliance with your local medical data regulations when using in production environments.

## 📞 Support

For issues and questions:

1. **Check this setup guide first**
2. **Review the troubleshooting section**
3. **Run the test suite**: `./run-tests.sh` to verify system health
4. **Check TESTING_STRATEGY.md**: Comprehensive testing documentation
5. **Examine the modular code structure**: Core/ directory contains all components
6. **Review test cases**: Tests/ directory has 64+ examples of expected behavior

### Quick Health Check

```bash
# Verify your installation
dotnet --version          # Should show .NET 9.0+
dotnet build             # Should build successfully
./run-tests.sh          # Should show all 64+ tests passing
dotnet run              # Should run the application
```

---

**Version**: 2.0.0  
**Last Updated**: September 6, 2025  
**Compatibility**: .NET 9.0+, Windows/macOS/Linux  
**Architecture**: Modular with comprehensive testing  
**Test Coverage**: 64+ tests, >85% code coverage  
**Production Ready**: ✅ Yes, with full CI/CD support
